Topic: Sora

At first glance, the images amaze and confound: A woman strides along a city street alive with pedestrians and neon lights. A car kicks up a cloud of dust on a mountain road. But upon closer inspection, anomalies appear: The dust plumes don’t always quite line up with the car’s rear wheels. 
And those pedestrians are stalking that woman like some eerie zombie horde. This is Sora, a new tool from OpenAI that can create lifelike, minute-long videos from simple text prompts. When the company unveiled it on Feb. 15, experts hailed it as a major moment in the development of artificial 
intelligence. Google and Meta also have unveiled new AI video research in recent months. The race is on toward an era when anyone can almost instantly create realistic-looking videos without sophisticated CGI tools or expertise. Disinformation researchers are unnerved by the prospect. Last year, 
fake AI photos of former president Donald Trump running from police went viral, and New Hampshire primary voters were targeted this January with fake, AI-generated audio of President Biden telling them not to vote. It’s not hard to imagine lifelike fake videos erupting on social media to further 
erode public trust in political leaders, institutions and the media. For now, Sora is open only to testers and select filmmakers; OpenAI declined to say when Sora will available to the general public. “We’re announcing this technology to show the world what’s on the horizon,” said Tim Brooks, 
a research scientist at OpenAI who co-leads the Sora project. Some are shockingly realistic. After Sora was asked to create a scene from California’s rugged Big Sur coastline, the AI tool’s output is stunning. Although “garay point beach” is not a real place, Sora produced a video that is almost 
indistinguishable from this real video of the Big Sur coast near Pfeiffer Falls shot by photographer Philip Thurston. If anything, the fake scene looks more majestic than the real one.

Topic: Global Temperature

Last year, more than 40 percent of the Earth’s surface was at least 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) warmer than in the late 1800s, a Washington Post analysis of temperature data released by the nonprofit Berkeley Earth found. A warming level of 1.5 degrees is the benchmark set in the 
2015 Paris climate agreement, a crucial target which experts say could limit the most dire consequences of climate change compared to two or three degrees of warming. Roughly one-fifth of the globe has already warmed by more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6F) compared with the late 1800s, before humans 
started burning fossil fuels on a large scale. Around 5 percent of the planet has warmed more than 3 degrees Celsius (5.4F) — a fast-warming area around the Arctic. “Nothing magical happens at 1.5 degrees where impacts suddenly get substantially worse than 1.45,” said Zeke Hausfather, a climate 
scientist at Berkeley Earth. But there would be “a big escalation in impacts” between 1.5 and 2 degrees of warming, he added. The Post has mapped the regions that saw the largest temperature anomalies in 2023 — places that have warmed so fast that the climate is already testing the limits of human 
infrastructure and the ability of the natural world to cope. Brazil, Paraguay and Bolivia all experienced unusual temperature spikes in 2023 despite warming more slowly in recent decades, according to Berkeley Earth data. Carlos Nobre, Earth System scientist at the University of São Paulo, said 2023 
marked the fourth time the Amazon region went into severe drought in less than 20 years, something never seen before in the historical records. “This is not natural variability,” he said. Last year’s drought shut down hydropower plants in Brazil and cut off riverside communities in the Amazon from the 
outside world as connecting waterways turned into empty sand banks.

Topic: Climate and Sami Language

The Sami languages are intricately tied to the way of life of the Sami indigenous people in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia. The Sami have coped with the extreme Arctic environment for thousands of years and today number around 50,000 to 100,000. Their languages range from the relatively widely spoken North Sami, estimated to have more than 20,000 speakers, to the exceedingly rare Ume Sami, spoken by only 25 people, and the near-extinct Ter Sami in Russia. But those overall figures don't capture just how important these highly specialised languages are to traditional Sami activities such as fishing and reindeer herding, as well as observing and describing Arctic weather patterns. In the Sami languages, for example, there are more than 300 words for snow, eight words for different seasons, and six different words to describe reindeer wandering by themselves. There are also several words for "frightened reindeer", depending on their sex and age. As climate change is threatening the Sami people's traditional way of life, Pieski and others fear that their language is also changing. Pieski says one endangered Sami word is jiekŋaguolli. It refers to salmon in the spring, immediately after the ice on the river breaks up. According to him, there's no need to use that word anymore. Due to the declining stocks, even before the ban, the official fishing season was shortened and started on June 1. By then, the river was clear of ice – and fishermen did not have any chance to see any jiekŋaguolli, or "early springtime salmon".

Topic: Megaflood

The city recorded its rainiest day ever on Monday, and it wasn't better news for the rest of California either. A state of emergency was declared and evacuation orders were issued. Mudslides hit neighbourhoods, drivers were stranded, and half a million residents lost power. About 37 million residents, or 94% of the state's population, are under flood alerts. The already-deadly storm is caused by an atmospheric river, a corridor of water vapour in Earth's lower atmosphere which is carried along by the wind, forming long currents – a kind of sky river. The consequences can be dramatic. The precipitation that falls is comparable to the rain brought by hurricanes making landfall on the Gulf Coast. Climate change is increasing the risk of a California megaflood, Swain's study warns. This extreme storm scenario would produce runoffs 200-400% greater than anything seen before in the Sierra Nevada, the sprawling 400-mile (650km) mountain range that traverses 24 of the 58 counties in California. The last such megaflood happened in 1861, inundating a 300 mile-long (483km) stretch of the Central Valley and large portions of modern-day Los Angeles with water. It could happen again, any time. And, the extremity of such a flood is increased by around 10% per 1C of global warming, because the warmer the planet the more capacity the atmosphere has to hold water vapour.

Topic: The Air

More than 25% of the US population is exposed to air considered "unhealthy" by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), according to a report by the climate non-profit First Street Foundation. By 2050, the number of people exposed to "unhealthy" days is set to increase by more than half. The worst days of air pollution ("hazardous" or maroon, under the EPA's system) are expected to rise by 27%. Wildfire smoke is one of the factors driving this trend. One study of PM2.5 (see fact box: What is PM2.5?) from wildfire smoke found that levels had increased by up to 5 micrograms per cubic metre in the western US in the past decade – enough to reverse "decades of policy-driven improvements in overall air quality", the authors concluded. One study found that a quarter of the US's PM2.5 pollution was caused by wildfire smoke. In western regions, as much as half was caused by smoke. In 2023, large portions of the US saw significant dips in air quality and visibility as smoke from wildfires north of the Canadian border billowed across the continent. With climate change expected to increase the risk of wildfires around the world, it is likely that air quality will also suffer. People who have existing respiratory conditions and newborns with developing lungs are the most affected by wildfire smoke. 

Topic: the Great Pacigic Garbage Patch

Moore had discovered the largest of five garbage patches around the world. Created by swirling ocean currents known as gyres, these act like a trash vortex, sucking in plastics and shifting constantly. Since its discovery, the Great Pacific Garbage Patch (GPGP) has often been depicted in the media as a floating mass of plastic, and referred to as a trash island. However, contrary to popular belief, there is no surface on which to stand and it can't be seen from space. "It wasn't a mountain of trash, or a field of trash, it wasn't even a patch of trash," says Moore. Instead, the ocean looked like a murky soup, made up of different sized plastics. The scale of the GPGP is so great, it is often imagined as a landmass. A 2018 study predicted at least 79,000 tonnes of ocean plastic are floating inside an area of 1.6 million sq km (618,000 sq miles) – a figure that is four to 16 times higher than previously reported. This is twice the size of Texas, or three times the size of France. In reality, ships can sail in and out, and mariners may not even release they are passing through a garbage patch. Studies indicate that – while more than 75% of the total mass of the garbage found in the GPGP is of debris greater than 5cm (1.9 in) in size – microplastics account for 94% of the estimated 1.8 trillion pieces floating in the area. 

Topic: Gravity Batteries

A cleaner future will mean focusing on ever-larger lithium-ion batteries, some energy experts say. Others argue that green hydrogen is the world's best hope. And then there are those placing their bets not on chemistry, but the limitless force that surrounds us all: gravity. Underpinned by Newton's immutable logic – what goes up, must come down – this new field of energy storage technology is, in principle, remarkably simple. When green energy is plentiful, use it to haul a colossal weight to a predetermined height. When renewables are limited, release the load, powering a generator with the downward gravitational pull. A similar approach, "pumped hydro", accounts for more than 90% of the globe's current high capacity energy storage. Funnel water uphill using surplus power and then, when needed, channel it down through hydroelectric generators. It's a tried-and-tested system. But there are significant issues around scalability. Hydro projects are big and expensive with prohibitive capital costs, and they have exacting geographical requirements – vertiginous terrain and an abundance of water. If the world is to reach net-zero, it needs an energy storage system that can be situated almost anywhere, and at scale.

Topic: Amazon's Secrets

The researchers had an important mission: they were searching for "Amazonian dark earth" (ADE), sometimes known as "black gold" or terra preta. This layer of charcoal-black soil, which can be up to 3.8m (12.5ft) thick, is found in patches across the Amazon basin. It is intensely fertile – rich in decaying organic matter and nutrients essential for growing crops, such as nitrogen, potassium and phosphorus. But unlike the thin, sandy soils typical of the rainforest, this layer was not deposited naturally – it was the work of ancient humans. This rich soil is a relic from a very different time – an era when indigenous groups formed a thriving network of settlements across this rainforest world. In January 2024, scientists announced the rediscovery of a long-vanished "garden" city. Hidden beneath the foliage of the rainforest in Ecuador's Upano valley was a 2,000 year-old urban centre, complete with plazas, streets and ceremonial platforms. The discovery has raised questions about whether there may be other ancient settlements concealed in the Amazon. And this is where ADE comes in. It's thought that the garden city could only support so many people because of the region's fertile volcanic soil. But elsewhere in the Amazon, indigenous communities relied on ADE to improve the productivity of their land. Now there's growing interest in the lessons their methods may hold for societies today, from improving crop yields to beating climate change.

Topic: Wildebeest and Wolves

Although their numbers fluctuate year to year, the wildebeest migration is a sight to behold. But in the first half of the 20th Century, a combination of a viral disease called rinderpest, spread by cattle, along with poaching and loss of habitat decimated wildebeest herds, causing their numbers to fall to about 240,000. With the introduction of a cattle vaccination programme against rinderpest in the 1950s, however, wildebeest populations began to steadily recover, reaching a peak of 1.5 million in the late 1970s. Today there is an estimated 1.2 million wildebeest in the Serengeti, although the number fluctuates year to year. They eat vast amounts of vegetation every day – meaning it is no longer available as fuel for fires. As they eat, the animals also enrich the soil with their dung, helping to lock the carbon into the land. Their hooves trample seedlings and other plantlife, while large numbers of aggressive adult males damage trees and larger bushes through "horning". Here the males rub their horns against trunks and branches, helping to thin out the number of trees and maintain the savannah landscape. This means that once more, the Serengeti has been transformed into a giant reservoir that absorbs more carbon than it releases, helping to lower the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere. And  for every 100,000 additional wildebeest in the Serengeti, the amount of carbon stored in the environment rises by 15%, according to Oswald Schmitz, a professor of population and community ecology at Yale University in Connecticut, US.

Topic: Giant Tortoises

Before the arrival of humans, Española had as many as 8,000 resident tortoises. However, in the 1800s, pirates and whalers nearly stripped Española and neighbouring islands of their tortoises for their meat. These sailors also left behind goats, which went wild, multiplied, and devoured native vegetation. By the 1970s much of the pristine habitat was wrecked. Española was down to its last 14 tortoises; 12 females, and two males. These were brought back to the Darwin Research Station's breeding programme on Santa Cruz between 1964 and 1974, and were later joined by Diego who was discovered in the San Diego zoo. Diego since fathered hundreds of tortoises, playing a key role in saving this critically endangered species, before returning to the place of his birth to live out his retirement in 2020. "Tortoises have an important ecosystem shaping behaviour," says Elizabeth Hunter, a conservation biologist for the US Geological Survey and Virginia Tech. She has studied tortoise ecology in the Galápagos Islands for over a decade. "[When they are gone], much more is lost than just the animals themselves. If there's no large herbivore present, then there's nothing to stop those woody plants [proliferating which] has cascading effects on other species and the habitat itself." Just living their daily lives, says Hunter, tortoises spur the island's natural cycles. A single tortoise can eat hundreds of kilograms of vegetation every year and thin out the undergrowth in the process. What it doesn't eat, it tramples. A giant tortoise in motion is essentially a bulldozer, knocking everything out of its way, and in the process boosting biodiversity. Now, driven by a 50-year breeding programme, Espanola's tortoise population – 3,000 and growing – is bringing back the native grasses and cacti. A 2023 study showed that woody plants are slowly declining and open savannas are returning – brought back by tortoise power. When a tortoise dips into a pond to cool off, it drags along nutrients from the land into the water. It also defecates in the water, enriching it with fertiliser and changing the oxygen level, creating a nutrient-rich aquatic environment for plants and insects. And it's a two-way street. When a Galápagos tortoise crawls out of its pond it is covered with mud – as much as 1lb (0.5kg) of dirt when dry. Multiply this by thousands of tortoises moving in and out of dozens of ponds every week, and tonnes of soil are displaced in a year.